## Installing the Authentication and Authorization Service

### Required For

The AAS is REQUIRED for all use cases.

* Platform Integrity with Data Sovereignty and Signed Flavors

* Application Integrity

*  Workload Confidentiality (both VMs and Containers)

### Prerequisites

The following must be completed before installing the Authentication and Authorization Service:

* The Certificate Management Service must be installed and available

* The Authentication and Authorization Service database must be available

### Package Dependencies

The Intel® SecL-DC Authentication and Authorization Service (AAS) requires a Postgresql 11 database. A script (install_pgdb.sh) is provided with the AAS that will automatically add the Postgresql repositories and install/configure a sample database. If this script will not be used, a Postgresql 11 database must be installed by the user before executing the AAS installation.

### Supported Operating Systems

The Intel® Security Libraries Authentication and Authorization Service supports:

Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8.4

Ubuntu 20.04

### Recommended Hardware

* 1 vCPUs

* RAM: 2 GB

* 10 GB

* One network interface with network access to all Intel® SecL-DC services

### Installation

To install the AAS, a bearer token from the CMS is required. This bearer token is output at the end of the CMS installation. However, if a new token is needed, simply use the following command from the CMS command line:

```shell
cms setup cms_auth_token --force
```

 Create the `authservice.env` installation answer file:

```shell
CMS_BASE_URL=https://<CMS IP or hostname>:8445/cms/v1/
CMS_TLS_CERT_SHA384=<CMS TLS certificate sha384>
AAS_DB_HOSTNAME=<IP or hostname of database server>
AAS_DB_PORT=<database port number; default is 5432>
AAS_DB_NAME=<database name>
AAS_DB_USERNAME=<database username>
AAS_DB_PASSWORD=<database password>
AAS_DB_SSLCERTSRC=<path to database TLS certificate; the default location is typically /usr/local/pgsql/data/server.crt>
AAS_ADMIN_USERNAME=<username for AAS administrative user>
AAS_ADMIN_PASSWORD=<password for AAS administrative user>
SAN_LIST=<comma-separated list of IPs and hostnames for the AAS; this should match the value for the AAS_TLS_SAN in the cms.env file from the CMS installation>
BEARER_TOKEN=<bearer token from CMS installation>
```

Execute the AAS installer:

```shell
./authservice-v4.1.bin
```

???+ note 
    The `AAS_ADMIN` credentials specified in this answer file will have administrator rights for the AAS and can be used to create other users, create new roles, and assign roles to users.

### Creating Users

After installation is complete, a number of roles and user accounts must be generated. Most of these accounts will be service users, used by the various Intel® SecL services to work together. Another set of users will be used for installation permissions, and a final administrative user will be created to provide the initial authentication interface for the actual human user. The administrative user can be used to create additional users with appropriately restricted roles based on organizational needs.

Creating these required users and roles is facilitated by a script that will accept credentials and some configuration settings from an answer file and automate the process.

Create the `populate-users.env` file:

```shell
ISECL_INSTALL_COMPONENTS=KBS,TA,WLS,WPM,IHUB,HVS,WLA,AAS

AAS_API_URL=https://<AAS IP address or hostname>:8444/aas/v1
AAS_ADMIN_USERNAME=<AAS username>
AAS_ADMIN_PASSWORD=<AAS password>

HVS_CERT_SAN_LIST=<comma-separated list of IPs and hostnames for the Host Verification Service>
IH_CERT_SAN_LIST=<comma-separated list of IPs and hostnames for the Integration Hub>
WLS_CERT_SAN_LIST=<comma-separated list of IPs and hostnames for the Workload Service>
KBS_CERT_SAN_LIST=<comma-separated list of IPs and hostnames for the Key Broker Service>
TA_CERT_SAN_LIST=<comma-separated list of IPs and hostnames for the Trust Agent>

HVS_SERVICE_USERNAME=<Username for the HVS service user>
HVS_SERVICE_PASSWORD=<Password for the HVS service user>

IHUB_SERVICE_USERNAME=<Username for the Hub service user>
IHUB_SERVICE_PASSWORD=<Password for the Hub service user>

WPM_SERVICE_USERNAME=<Username for the WPM service user>
WPM_SERVICE_PASSWORD=<Password for the WPM service user>

WLS_SERVICE_USERNAME=<Username for the WLS service user>
WLS_SERVICE_PASSWORD=<Password for the WLS service user>

WLA_SERVICE_USERNAME=<Username for the WLA service user>
WLA_SERVICE_PASSWORD=<Password for the WLA service user>

GLOBAL_ADMIN_USERNAME=<Username for the global Administrator user
GLOBAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD=<Password for the global Administrator user

INSTALL_ADMIN_USERNAME=<Username for the installation user
INSTALL_ADMIN_PASSWORD=<Password for the global installation user
```

???+ note 
    The `ISECL_INSTALL_COMPONENTS` variable is a comma-separated list of the components that will be used in your environment. Not all services are required for every use case. If a given service will not be used in your deployment, simply delete the unnecessary service abbreviation from the `ISECL_INSTALL_COMPONENTS` list, and leave the SAN and credential variables for that service blank.

???+ note 
    The SAN list variables each support wildcards( "*" and "?"). In particular, without wildcards the Trust Agent SAN list would need to explicitly list each hostname or IP address for all Trust Agents that will be installed, which is not generally feasible. Using wildcards, domain names and entire IP ranges can be included in the SAN list, which will allow any host matching those ranges to install the relevant service. The SAN list specified here must exactly match the SAN list for the applicable service in that service’s env installation file.

Execute the populate-users script:

```shell
./populate-users
```

???+ note 
    The script can be executed with the `–output_json` argument to create the `populate-user.json`.This json output file will contain all of the users created by the script, along with usernames, passwords, and role assignments. This file can be used both as a record of the service and administrator accounts, and can be used as alternative inputs to recreate the same users with the same credentials in the future if needed. Be sure to protect this file if the `–output_json` argument is used.

The script will automatically generate the following users:

* Verification Service User

* Integration Hub Service User

* Workload Policy Manager Service User

* Workload Service User Name

* Workload Service User

* Global Admin User

* Installation User

These user accounts will be used during installation of several of the Intel® SecL-DC applications. In general, whenever credentials are required by an installation answer file, the variable name should match the name of the corresponding variable used in the `populate-users.env` file.

The Global Admin user account has all roles for all services. This is a default administrator account that can be used to perform any task, including creating any other users. In general this account is useful for POC installations, but in production it should be used only to create user accounts with more restrictive roles. The administrator credentials should be protected and not shared.

The populate-users script will also output an installation token. This token has all privileges needed for installation of the Intel® SecL services, and uses the credentials provided with the `INSTALLATION_ADMIN_USERNAME` and password. The remaining Intel ® SecL-DC services require this token (set as the `BEARER_TOKEN` variable in the installation env files) to grant the appropriate privileges for installation. By default this token will be valid for two hours; the populate-users script can be rerun with the same `populate-users.env` file to regenerate the token if more time is required, or the `INSTALLATION_ADMIN_USERNAME` and password can be used to generate an authentication token.

